Today, we will talk about those
who are close to all of our hearts
—our children.
I am sure that you dear parents
greatly love and appreciate your children.
What a privilege it is to have them!
Think about it: There are millions of angels.
However, angels were not given
the privilege to produce children.
When Jesus was on earth, he was not married,
so he did not have the privilege
of having children.
But you parents have that privilege.
What a treasure!
What does the Governing Body
want to tell you children?
That we love you!
We are so happy to have you with us,
and we would like to help you
to become and remain
worshippers of Jehovah.
You are like a beautiful gift,
a special gift, from Jehovah.
Christian parents value and appreciate
you children
more than a million dollars!
How do we know?
Because Psalm 127:3 says
that “[children] are
an inheritance from Jehovah.”
What does that mean?
An inheritance is a very valuable gift
that has been given to someone.
Often, the gift is
from an older family relative.
Jehovah views you children
as a very valuable gift
that he has given to your parents.
He expects parents
to take good care of this gift.
He entrusts parents with the welfare
and happiness of their children.
And when parents do their best for you,
it especially makes us happy
when you children
do your best to please and serve Jehovah.
There are so many children earth wide
who are fine examples for others
by means of their love
for Jehovah and the truth.
Parents, will your children
become good examples
for other young ones in the truth?
One father of seven children,
all of whom grew up as lovers of Jehovah,
would always tell new parents
that there are no guarantees with children.
They each have their own personality
and are exposed
to various outside influences.
But he would always urge new parents
to do the best they can
to teach their children
and reach their hearts.
Your conscientious effort
increases the possibility
of them becoming
a success in Jehovah’s service.
So parents, how are you caring
for your “inheritance”?
What are some vital steps
to teach and reach the heart of your child?
First, please locate
Judges 13:8.
The parents of Samson likely prayed often
for Jehovah’s help
to properly raise their son.
Verse 8 says:
“Manoah pleaded with Jehovah and said:
‘Pardon me, Jehovah.
“‘Please let the man of the true God
whom you just sent
“‘come again to instruct us
about what we should do
with the child who will be born.’”
If you parents do the same,
Jehovah will answer your prayers
through the Scriptures, Bible literature,
or possibly by means
of a congregation meeting.
Additionally, being consistent
with family worship
is vital to reach the heart of one’s child.
It is true that it takes some planning
and absorbs some of your time each week.
But remember that in 2008,
the Governing Body gave us all
the extra time each week for family worship
by adjusting the weekly meeting schedule.
A brother from Portugal wrote:
“Aside from family worship,
“my father had a separate Bible study
on a different day
“with each of us three children.
“I am sure that these studies
were very important
for us to resist
all of the pressures at school.”
It is no surprise that all three children
have been in special full-time service
for a number of years now.
Similarly, a brother
from northern Italy wrote:
“We studied with each one of our children
personally
in harmony with their age and gender.”
Each family head must decide
what is best for his family.
However, a well-prepared
Family Worship program
is essential.
Another excellent way to teach your children
is by example.
Children often pick up mannerisms
from their parents.
They often walk and talk
like one of the parents.
But they also pick up
on godly personality traits and attitudes.
So be the kind of person
that you want your child to be.
Even though Jesus was the only perfect child
ever born on earth,
it appears that his mother, Mary,
and adoptive father, Joseph,
were good examples for him.
Luke 2:41, 42
tells us that Jesus’ parents
“were accustomed to go from year to year
to Jerusalem for . . . the Passover.”
Joseph could have viewed the trip
as inconvenient and even too expensive.
But as parents, he and Mary
set a good example
for the young boy Jesus.
Most young ones can quote
1 Corinthians 15:33 by heart.
Maybe it is because their parents
have reminded them
of the principle so often.
“Bad associations spoil useful habits.”
Do you remember in Luke chapter 8
that Jesus spoke
about the different kinds of soil
that “the word of God” might fall on?
The “soil” represents your child’s heart.
It is our hope and prayer
that your child’s heart
is like “good,” or “fine,” soil.
In verse 15,
Jesus applied the illustration
of the fine soil,
saying:
“These are the ones who,
“after hearing the word
with a fine and good heart,
retain it and bear fruit with endurance.”
But what can happen if after responding
to your training from God’s Word,
your child is somehow exposed
to bad association?
When young ones spend considerable time
with other young ones
who have not been trained
by Bible principles,
it can counteract
your training from God’s Word.
Such association is like a severe rainstorm
that erodes the fine soil
that you have built up.
It can quickly wash away
the good training that you have given.
Psalm 1:1 says that we can be happy
if we do not “walk” with, “stand” with,
or “sit” with those who do what is bad.
And we could add to that
—and do not text or email others
who do not think wholesome thoughts.
Help your children to choose good associates.
So many young ones around the world
have responded
to their parents’ fine instruction
and express themselves from the heart.
Let me share a few experiences
that demonstrate this.
One young person from the United States
wrote in saying:
“I am 11 years old,
“and I am an unbaptized publisher.
“I can’t thank you enough
for all that you do!
“I especially appreciate
all the time and effort you put
“into the Caleb and Sophia videos.
“I love these videos.
“They help me to show good conduct at school.
“I am grateful that you encourage
family worship.
“You see, I used to have
doubts about Jehovah.
“If it were not for the time
at family worship,
“I probably would have drifted more and more.
“I love Jehovah and want to serve him,
“but I still have lots to work on.
“I hope you will make more videos
to help me and other young ones
to serve Jehovah with our whole heart
and whole soul.”
We received this message:
“Hi, I am ten years old.
“I just wanted to say thank you!
“When I grow up, I want to work in Bethel
“because I love Jehovah
and want to make him happy.
“In Paradise, I want to open a zoo
without cages.
Sending all my love!”
I recall I once met an eight-year-old girl
in Denver, Colorado,
who was baptized at eight years of age.
By that time, she had read
the entire Bible through twice.
Of course, each child is unique;
not all children become mature
at the same rate
or at the same point in life.
You may recall that we read
Psalm 127:3 earlier,
which said that “[children] are
an inheritance from Jehovah.”
Let’s read the next verse, number 4:
“Like arrows in the hand of a mighty man,
so are the sons of one’s youth.”
Children are likened to “arrows”
that should be aimed at a target.
An archer cannot recall an arrow
once it leaves his bow.
Parents have “arrows.”
They have their children to aim at the target
for a relatively brief time.
And what is the target?
What is the goal?
For your children to become
wholesome, dedicated,
and baptized servants of Jehovah.
However, arrows can be made
from different materials,
and they can vary in size.
Parents must remember
that no two children are precisely alike.
Some have a good measure
of mental and emotional maturity
at a young age
and express a desire to get baptized.
Others may not be ready for baptism
until they are a bit older.
Thus, discerning parents
do not pressure their children
to get baptized.
Rather, they assist each child
in keeping with his or her own growth
and spiritual progress.
But it is also true that some parents
underestimate their children.
Some hold them back
from dedicating their life to Jehovah,
even though they have developed
a close relationship with Him as a youngster.
We received this comment
from a sister in Russia:
“Thank you very much
for taking care of younger ones.
“I particularly appreciate your support.
“Your loving words inspire me.
“I am 17.
“I am invigorated by articles and videos
“which are prepared by you.
“Your work and love bring me to tears.
“Thank you very much!
“I am touched by your affectionate care
of us here in Russia.
“Your warm words and prayers
are the best comfort for us.
“I am grateful to you.
“Thanks to your taking care of me,
“I was able to begin pioneering
two years ago.
“It’s the best life ever.
“I am happy.
“I can’t be silent.
I’m filled with gratitude.”
The Watchtower  once commented:
“It has been said that raising children
is a 20-year project,
but parents never really stop being parents.”
Among the very best things
you can give to your children
are love, time, and Bible-based training
—yes, endeavoring to reach their hearts.
Admittedly, each child
will respond differently to the training.
However, many who have been raised
by parents that love Jehovah
feel like Joanna Mae, a sister in Asia.
She says:
“Looking back on the training
I received from my parents,
“I am so thankful that they disciplined me
“and taught me to love Jehovah.
“They did not just give me life,
they gave me a meaningful life.”
And there are millions of adult Christians
who would express similar sentiments
of appreciation.
Parents, take care of your inheritance,
your precious children,
by training them and reaching their heart.